docs: Update Deep Links analysis document (#1443)
Flank/flank-dashboard: metrics/web/docs/features/deep_links/01_deep_linking.md

# Deep Linking
> Feature description / User story.

As a user, I want to pass direct links to project and/or project groups, so that other users can navigate easier.

# Analysis
> Describe the general analysis approach.

The `Deep Linking` feature improves the navigation experience by allowing users to navigate to a specific resource of an application and to save the application state in a URL.

The analysis stage aims the following goals:
1. Define the detailed requirements for the deep linking feature;
2. Investigate existing approaches for the deep linking in the Flutter Web applications.

> 3. Define which approach satisfy our requirements: existing external solutions, or the custom-developed approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Define which approach satisfies our requirements: existing external solutions, or the custom-developed approach.
```

# Requirements
> Define requirements and make sure that they are complete.

The deep links implementation approach that we are to select must satisfy the following requirements:
- Possibility to handle deep links and restore the application's state using them;
- Possibility to reflect the application's state in deep links as a response to UI events (e.g. filtering, dropdown selections, searching, etc.);

# Prerequisites

> Before deep-diving into deep linking feature analysis, make sure to get familiar with the Flutter new navigation system ([Navigator 2.0](https://flutter.dev/docs/release/breaking-changes/route-navigator-refactoring)) which is [used in the Metrics Web application](https://github.com/Flank/flank-dashboard/blob/master/metrics/web/docs/features/navigation/01_navigation_design.md). The understanding of the Navigator 2.0 approach is important for the understanding deep linking feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deep-diving into deep linking feature analysis, make sure to get familiar with the Flutter new navigation system ([Navigator 2.0](https://flutter.dev/docs/release/breaking-changes/route-navigator-refactoring)) which is [used in the Metrics Web application](https://github.com/Flank/flank-dashboard/blob/master/metrics/web/docs/features/navigation/01_navigation_design.md). The understanding of the Navigator 2.0 approach is important for the understanding deep linking approaches.
```
Does it make sense?

# Feasibility study
> A preliminary study of the feasibility of implementing this feature.

The `Deep Linking` feature improves the overall user experience in terms of navigation, so this feature makes sense for the project.

> To be able to implement the `Deep Linking` feature we should be able to perform the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement the `Deep Linking` feature, we should be able to perform the following actions:
```
What do you think?

- Parsing the `query parameters` from the URL;
- Updating the URL and the `query parameters` in response to any events.

Since `Navigator 2.0` provides the navigation system that allows performing the actions listed above, and the Metrics Web application uses `Navigator 2.0`, it is possible to implement the `Deep Linking` feature in the Metrics Web application.

# Landscape
> Look for existing solutions in the area.

There are 2 main approaches for implementing the `Deep Linking` feature in the Metrics Web application:
- Using 3-rd party package (such as [`routemaster`](https://pub.dev/packages/routemaster), [`beamer`](https://pub.dev/packages/beamer), etc.);
- A custom implementation based on the existing `Navigator 2.0` integration.

Let's compare the listed approaches in a bit more detail.

> ## 3-rd party package approach

Reviewer: Would it be great to shortly explain what does the `3-rd party package approach` means? More precisely, I think it would be great to explain that there are a couple of packages that wrap the `Flutter Navigator` and makes it a bit more easy-to-use.

Consider the following pros and cons of the 3-rd party package utilization approach:

Pros:
- Provides ready-to-use implementation out of the box, including deep linking, nested navigation, and many other features.

Cons:
- May require code generation;
- Requires the navigation system reintegration - meaning that we must use the 3-rd party `RouteInformationParser`s and `RouterDelegate`s.

> ## Custom implementation

Reviewer: Would it be useful to explain that the `custom implementation` means that we are going to implement the deep-linking using the `Navigator 2.0` features?

Consider the following pros and cons of the custom implementation approach:

Pros:
- Highly customizable approach;
- Well-testable approach;

Cons:
- Requires more code comparing to the 3-rd party package approach.

According to the comparison above, we choose the [`Custom implementation`](#custom-implementation) approach, as it fits the current navigation approach used in the Metrics Web application, and satisfies the customization and testability requirements.

Consider this diagram that briefly describes the custom implementation approach:

![Custom approach diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Flank/flank-dashboard/update_deep_links_analysis/metrics/web/docs/features/deep_links/diagrams/custom_approach_component_diagram.puml)

# Prototyping
> Create a simple prototype to confirm that implementing this feature is possible.

> The following code snippet demonstrates the process of parsing the query parameters from the URL:

Reviewer: Would it be great to mention here the things we should be able to perform to implement the deep linking and then take a closer look at each of them? I mean, would it be great to have an opening sentence for this section here or something like that?

```dart
final url = 'https://some-website/page?queryParameter=someParameter';

final uri = Uri.parse(url);

print(uri.queryParameters); // {queryParameter : someParameter)
```

> The following code snippet demonstrates the process of updating the URL in the browser (using the [`universal_html`](https://pub.dev/packages/universal_html) package):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code snippet demonstrates the process of updating the URL in the browser without changing its history (using the [`universal_html`](https://pub.dev/packages/universal_html) package):
```
?

The analysis stage aims the following goals:
1. Define the detailed requirements for the deep linking feature;
2. Investigate existing approaches for the deep linking in the Flutter Web applications.
3. Define which approach satisfies our requirements: existing external solutions, or the custom-developed approach.

### Feasibility study
> A preliminary study of the feasibility of implementing this feature.

The `Deep Linking` feature improves the overall user experience in terms of navigation, so this feature makes sense for the project.

To implement the `Deep Linking` feature, we should be able to perform the following actions:
- Parsing the `query parameters` from the URL;
- Updating the URL and the `query parameters` in response to any events.

Since `Navigator 2.0` provides the navigation system that allows performing the actions listed above, and the Metrics Web application uses `Navigator 2.0`, it is possible to implement the `Deep Linking` feature in the Metrics Web application.

### Requirements
> Define requirements and make sure that they are complete.

> The deep links implementation approach that we are to select must satisfy the following requirements:

Reviewer: I believe here we should specify requirements for a feature, but not for the implementation approach we are going to choose.

- Possibility to handle deep links and restore the application's state using them;

> - Possibility to reflect the application's state in deep links as a response to UI events (e.g. filtering, dropdown selections, searching, etc.);

Reviewer: Would it be great to mention here that we should be able to update the URL query parameters/deep links without changing the current browser history?

### Prerequisites
Before deep-diving into deep linking feature analysis, make sure to get familiar with the Flutter new navigation system ([Navigator 2.0](https://flutter.dev/docs/release/breaking-changes/route-navigator-refactoring)) which is [used in the Metrics Web application](https://github.com/Flank/flank-dashboard/blob/master/metrics/web/docs/features/navigation/01_navigation_design.md). The understanding of the Navigator 2.0 approach is important for the understanding deep linking approaches.

### Landscape
> Look for existing solutions in the area.

There are 2 main approaches for implementing the `Deep Linking` feature in the Metrics Web application:
- [3-rd party packages](#3-rd-party-packages-approach);
- [A custom implementation](#custom-implementation).

Let's compare the listed approaches in a bit more detail.

#### 3-rd party packages approach
This approach means the utilization of the 3-rd party packages, such as [`routemaster`](https://pub.dev/packages/routemaster), [`beamer`](https://pub.dev/packages/beamer), [`auto_route`](https://pub.dev/packages/auto_route), etc.

> All the listed packages wrap the Flutter's `Navigator 2.0` and provide a simple API to work with. However, to integrate such packages in the Metrics Web application we must use the `RouteInformationParser`s and `RouterDelegate`s the packages provide. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the listed packages wrap the Flutter's `Navigator 2.0` and provide a simple API to work with. However, to integrate such a package into the Metrics Web application, we must use the `RouteInformationParsers` and `RouterDelegates` the packages provide.
```
?
